README.md, before:

# venvwrap
A collection of bash functions for python venv mangement

## Install
via pip

```
pip install venvwrap
source bin/venvwrap.sh
```

via github

```
git clone https://github.com/hunkeydee/venvwrap
sha256sum -c venvwrap/sha256
source venvwrap/venvwrap.sh
```

## Asciicast Demos
- [basic create, pip-install, use, destroy](https://asciinema.org/a/326317)
- [create venvs from varied python versions](https://asciinema.org/a/326320)
- [link packages between venvs](https://asciinema.org/a/326319)

---

## Bash Environment and File System effects
- The script exports the following variables and default values.  Change them as needed before installation.

  - `VENV_HOME="${HOME}"/.venvs` -> Default folder for venv directories

  - `VENV_PY=$(which python3)` -> Default python installation

- If the `$VENV_HOME` directory does not already exist on the file system, this script will create it.

- All venvwrap commands are bash functions, with a small reliance on common linux binaries such as `rm`, `ln`, `popd`, and `pushd`.

## Usage
**venvmk** - Create venv(s), installs pip, wheel, setuptools
```
usage: venvmk <venv>...

  ex: `venvmk alpha` -> creates a venv called 'alpha'
  ex: `venvmk bravo charlie` -> creates two seperate venvs
  ex: `venvmk delta -p /opt/bin/python3.6\` -> create venv using alt python
```
**venvrm** - Delete venv(s)
```
usage: venvrm <venv>...

  ex: `venvrm delta` -> deletes the venv called 'delta'
  ex: `venvrm echo foxtrot` deletes two venvs
```
**workon** - Enter/activate a venv
```
  usage: workon <venv>

  ex: `workon golf` -> activates the 'golf' venv context
```
**venvex** - Exit/deactivate the current venv
```
  usage: venvex

  ex: `venvex` -> deactivates the current venv
```
**venvls** - List all virtual environments managed by venvwrap
```
  usage: venvls
  
  ex `venvls` -> returns a dir listing of $VENV_HOME
```
**venvpkgls** - List packages installed or linked in venv(s)
```
  usage: venvpkgls <venv>...

  ex: `venvpkgls juliet` -> runs pip list for 'juliet', then displays link in the site-packages directory
```
**venvcmd** - Run cmd in venv
```
  usage: venvcmd <venv> <cmd>
  
  ex: `venvcmd kilo python3 ./server.py` -> runs server.py in 'kilo' venv
```
**venvinstall** - Install pip package(s) in venv
```
  usage: venvinstall <venv> <pkg>...'

  ex: `venvinstall mike urllib3` -> installs urllib3 in 'mike'
  ex: `venvinstall november numpy chardet` -> installs numpy and chardet
```
**venvlink** - link a package from  source venv> to target venv
```
  usage: venvlink <source_venv> <source_pkg> <target_venv>

  ex: venvlink oscar matplotlib papa` -> creates a link in 'papa' pointing to the matplotlib package in oscar
```

## Background
I didn't know enough about venvs (or bash scripting), so I spent a weekend learning/making this project.  Its generally inspired by [`virtualenvwrapper`](https://pypi.org/project/virtualenvwrapper/).  Instead of wrapping virtualenv, these functions support the built-in python `venv`.  *I think you can use virtualenvwrapper to wrap venvs since they're almost equivilent, but just using someone elses code means I learn less.*

Very little effort was put into testing this against other systems.  *It works for me* with GNU bash, version 5.0.3(1)-release (x86_64-pc-linux-gnu) running on Debian Buster as well as Windows 10 wsl.  I tested python mangement with `python3.7.3` directly from debian apt packages, as well as `python3.6.10`, `python3.7.7`, and `python3.8.3` compiled directly from python.org.  All currently supported versions of python (May 2020) tested successful.

Some dependencies include:

| python         | other cmds     |
|----------------|----------------|
| `python3`      | `bash`         |
| `python3-venv` | `rm` `ln`      |
| `python3-pip`  | `pushd` `popd` |

Commit message:

added comments on main feature

README.md, after:

# venvwrap
A collection of bash functions for python venv mangement

## Install
via pip

```
pip install venvwrap
source bin/venvwrap.sh
```

via github

```
git clone https://github.com/hunkeydee/venvwrap
sha256sum -c venvwrap/sha256
source venvwrap/venvwrap.sh
```

## Asciicast Demos
- [basic create, pip-install, use, destroy](https://asciinema.org/a/326317)
- [create venvs from varied python versions](https://asciinema.org/a/326320)
- [link packages between venvs](https://asciinema.org/a/326319)

---

## Bash Environment and File System effects
- The script exports the following variables and default values.  Change them as needed before installation.

  - `VENV_HOME="${HOME}"/.venvs` -> Default folder for venv directories

  - `VENV_PY=$(which python3)` -> Default python installation

- If the `$VENV_HOME` directory does not already exist on the file system, this script will create it.

- All venvwrap commands are bash functions, with a small reliance on common binaries (`rm` and `ln`).

## Usage
**venvmk** - Create venv(s), installs pip, wheel, setuptools
```
usage: venvmk <venv>...

  ex: `venvmk alpha` -> creates a venv called 'alpha'
  ex: `venvmk bravo charlie` -> creates two seperate venvs
  ex: `venvmk delta -p /opt/bin/python3.6\` -> create venv using alt python
```
**venvrm** - Delete venv(s)
```
usage: venvrm <venv>...

  ex: `venvrm delta` -> deletes the venv called 'delta'
  ex: `venvrm echo foxtrot` deletes two venvs
```
**workon** - Enter/activate a venv
```
  usage: workon <venv>

  ex: `workon golf` -> activates the 'golf' venv context
```
**venvex** - Exit/deactivate the current venv
```
  usage: venvex

  ex: `venvex` -> deactivates the current venv
```
**venvls** - List all virtual environments managed by venvwrap
```
  usage: venvls
  
  ex `venvls` -> returns a dir listing of $VENV_HOME
```
**venvpkgls** - List packages installed or linked in venv(s)
```
  usage: venvpkgls <venv>...

  ex: `venvpkgls juliet` -> runs pip list for 'juliet', then displays link in the site-packages directory
```
**venvcmd** - Run cmd in venv
```
  usage: venvcmd <venv> <cmd>

  ex: `venvcmd kilo python3 ./server.py` -> runs server.py in 'kilo' venv.  note that in this case ./server.py would need to be placed at ~/.venvs/kilo/server.py.
```
**venvinstall** - Install pip package(s) in venv
```
  usage: venvinstall <venv> <pkg>...'

  ex: `venvinstall mike urllib3` -> installs urllib3 in 'mike'
  ex: `venvinstall november numpy chardet` -> installs numpy and chardet
```
**venvlink** - link a package from  source venv> to target venv
```
  usage: venvlink <source_venv> <source_pkg> <target_venv>

  ex: venvlink oscar matplotlib papa` -> creates a link in 'papa' pointing to the matplotlib package in oscar
```

## Background
I didn't know enough about venvs (or bash scripting), so I spent a weekend learning/making this project.  Its generally inspired by [`virtualenvwrapper`](https://pypi.org/project/virtualenvwrapper/).  Instead of wrapping virtualenv, these functions support the built-in python `venv`.  *I think you can use virtualenvwrapper to wrap venvs since they're almost equivilent, but just using someone elses code means I learn less.*

The main feature I wanted to add while making this script was to have the ability to link packages between virtual environments.  Imagine you have a need to setup three seperate venvs, but they all need the same numpy`.  You could install `numpy` in all three, but that wastes time, filespace and bandwidth.  `venvlink` works around this by placing link files in the site-packages dir to the installed packages of other venvs.  For example, `venvlink alpha numpy bravo` would take the `numpy` package already installed in `alpha`, and make a link file to it within `bravo`'s site-packages.  This lets me set up a flexible development environment without duplicating lots of files.

Very little effort was put into testing against other linux systems.  *It works for me* with bash 5.0.3 running on Debian Buster as well as Windows 10 wsl.  I tested python mangement with `python3.7.3` directly from debian apt packages, as well as `python3.6.10`, `python3.7.7`, and `python3.8.3` compiled directly from python.org.  All currently supported versions of python (May 2020) tested successful.

Some dependencies include:

| python         | other cmds     |
|----------------|----------------|
| `python3`      | `bash`         |
| `python3-venv` | `rm` `ln`      |
| `python3-pip`  |                |
